>> Steve Kinney: I can click these and
you can see the actions are being fired.
it doesn't do anything yet because I
haven't wired these into a reducer at all.
So I'm gonna need to do that.
These are firing actions that go into
the ether cuz no reducer cares about them.
So we put it on the page, we have it,
we know that it's firing actions.
What we wanna do is we need to, this
is still broken, if I hit any of these,
it's very angry at me.
We're gonna need to do a few things.
We're gonna need to always use the present
as our item, so we need to fix those.
And then also, what's the other thing that
we need to do in order to be able to undo?
We can change the present, but
we also have to remember the past, right?
So we're gonna take the past and
we're gonna put it on the array
of all of the past states.
So let's begin to implement that.
So I'm gonna go to the items reducer.
I'm just gonna head start here.
And I know that it's now,
we'll go through,
>> Steve Kinney: And
I need to think about this.
I'm going to return.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's pull these and
let's say,
>> Steve Kinney: Past,
present, future equals the state.
And what we'll do here is,
>> Steve Kinney: Return
whatever the current past was,
the present, the future.
And I'm gonna copy this real quick.
And,
>> Steve Kinney: So
this will be the state.present
plus the new item, right?
And we'll put that in the present.
And then the past is going to be,
>> Steve Kinney: State.past.
Actually, I wanna put the present in the
beginning, and you'll see why in a second.
What's that?
>> Steve Kinney: So
this will be the current present,
which is now the soon to be past, and then
we're gonna overwrite [LAUGH] the present.
If you've watched Back to the Future
lately, that's fairly helpful for
understanding any of this.
All right, very cool, so past, present,
and future, we'll update those.
Let's keep going along, so
I'm putting the present at the front, and
I'm just gonna use that cuz for
a little help later.
Action type, remove item.
Again, we need to do a little bit of,
>> Steve Kinney: We'll bring this in and
we'll return.
>> Steve Kinney: Present is gonna be
present.filter
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
so we'll filter all those.
>> Steve Kinney: State.present,
yeah, we need this present
right here as well.
And then the past, again,this is gonna
be the same thing that we had here.
Just take the current state of
the world and put it in the past.
All right, we keep going here,
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll grab this, [SOUND],
a little too.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll
say present,
>> Steve Kinney: Get rid of the semicolon.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll append it
to the stack there.
All right, almost there.
We gotta mark it as unpacked and
then we're done.
>> Steve Kinney: Put that on, and
then we'll grab this,
turn it into the present again.
And then we are going to do
the thing I'm most nervous for,
which is check the code and
make sure that I didn't break anything.
Cuz in a perfect word, we're going
to append stuff into the past, but
we still haven't implemented it yet.
But ideally, my app should work and
not break, in a perfect world.
All right, you see toggle item,
you can now see that the old item is,
we have it there in the past.
>> Steve Kinney: Present,
all right, very cool.
All right, so now we wanna
implement the undo and the redo.
So we're gonna have two situations
that could happen if the action
type,
>> Steve Kinney: Is undo action
item.
>> Steve Kinney: It's
a constant cuz I have it assigned.
Yep, I could use the string too.
>> Steve Kinney: And
Visual Studio Code is now nice enough
apparently to automatically import
stuff for me.
I don't know if that's a plug-in or what,
I will check my plug-ins later to find out
how I've enabled that amazing feature and
share that in a little bit.
Cool, so we wanna undo.
There's a chance that the past
could be empty, right?
If we just start out the app,
we don't wanna grab the first thing out of
the array cuz that's gonna be undefined,
everything's gonna end poorly.
So we'll say if there's nothing
in the past, like literally,
just don't do anything.
But if there is,
we'll say the new future is
going to be,
>> Steve Kinney: What's currently
the present,
>> Steve Kinney: Plus whatever is
already in the future, yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm
inside other conditional I think.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm getting better about
reading the warning.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
we got the newFuture, and
then we'll say, the newPresent.
And this syntax is pulling stuff off of
the array that's gonna be the currentPast.
So if you haven't seen the syntax before,
this is gonna pull the first item off
the array and call it the newPresent, and
call everything else on the array newPast.
And that's why I put it on the front,
there's no great syntax for
pulling the last thing off the array.
So I’m putting it on
the front of each array, so
I can just pull out the first thing on
the array and then I have everything else.
Cool, so then we'll simply return past is
the newPast.
>> Steve Kinney: The present,
it the newPresent.
And the future is the newFuture.
Naming things is hard, if you have
better names, I would say go for
that.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
I'm gonna just basically do
a few little changes here.
I'm gonna say there's no future,
we're not doing any redo.
And then we're gonna change this
a little bit, which is, let's grab,
let's move this up, and we're grabbing
the present off of the future now.
Anyone confused about
time travel right now?
>> Steve Kinney: Near future.
I'm basically shuffling
everything across these stacks,
is effectively what's happening.
It's just, yeah, and we'll say the,
>> Steve Kinney: Will
be the present plus what
was ever on the past.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, I'm excited.
I'm not confident, but I'm excited.
Cuz there was a whole a lot of
[LAUGH] intricate code there.
So we'll say I've packed pants, undo.
It's back.
Undo, undo, undo,
redo, redo.
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
we wanna undo it, we wanna redo it.
We wanna undo it, we wanna redo it.
So now, it's really awesome
when we have this stature,
we can kind of manage this
stuff with our state.
We can implement features that I think
would have been a really complicated if we
we're just like manipulating
background models, right?
But we store each frame of
the state of the world and
we've effectively implemented
time travel in our application.
Literally, with past, present and future.
We've implemented time travel
in our application, and
have a really great way
to add new features.
While it was definitely some extra
steps I had to put in place, I
did implement this feature pretty quickly
on the grand scheme of things, right?
And there's different options that you can
do it, different ways that you can do it
cuz, again, that's the great part
about having objects, right,
that you're moving around and functions,
is that you can implement these things and
it's very granular,
how you go about doing it.
This is something, just FYI,
I would definitely reduce or
test to your friends here, right?
I was not confident as I was
writing that code, right?
So if I was doing it in more than 10,
15 minutes, I'd probably write some unit
tests and make sure that the state of
the word is what I expected each time.
Rather than hoping for the best when I
flipped over in front of 20 people in
the room and 130 people online right now.
But yeah, so
we've implemented undo and redo.